 NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Doctors in the Country of Travel
Page 14
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
When you access the Patient Summary through the hospital information system, you
will receive it both in the patient's original language and in your own language. The
underlying digital infrastructure does the translation automatically. There might be
information missing from the Patient Summary, if it is not available in the country of
residence or if it could not be translated. In case, for any reasons, you cannot
understand the information in thePatient Summary, you will perform the
consultation as usual. 
In case of emergency, if the access to Patient Summary is not possiblebe cause
patient data  are not available (for instance the patient forgot to give their
authorisation in their country before leaving), the emergency services will provide
medical interventions at the best of their capacities even without this information.
The Member State where the health care is provided is responsible in case harm
arises from the healthcare the patient receives.                                                           
If an EU citizen receives necessary healthcare using the European Health Insurance
Card (EHIC) the same conditions of fees and payment are applicable for the
treatment as for insured domestic citizens. In case the EHIC or S2form(prior
authorisation form) are not possible to use, patients have to pay upfront and may
claim reimbursement once back home. (*)
In what language will the patient's summary be accessible? What if it is in a
language I do not speak and the patient quickly needs assistance? 
What if the patient needs to visit an emergency service, but is not
adequately treated because their data has not been updated? Who is liable?
How will the foreign patient pay for the health service received?                 
 NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Pharmacists Country of Travel
Page 15
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
Each country has defined the type of identification document that the patient has to
show to identify themselves when using the 
.You need to check with
your own national contact point for eHealth what identification document you are
allowed to ask to the patient.
Once you have identified yourself in the pharmacy information system and you have
also checked the patient's identity, you will request to access the patient's data
provided by the underlying digital infrastructure. If the data are not available for
electronic cross border exchange, the system will inform you. 
Before accessing the ePrescription, you must inform the patient on how their health
data will be processed in the country of travel. Depending on your national privacy
laws, you may also have to ask the patient to sign a new Privacy statement. 
If you are not able to access the 
, the system will give you an error
message and inform you about the cause. 
One of the causes might be that the patient did not make their health data available
before leaving their country of residence. 
In this case, depending on the Member State, you should advise the patient to either
access the national online portal to give permission or contact their doctor when
back in their country of residence.
How do I control the patient's identity? 
ePrescription
How do I access the patient's data? 
ePrescription
What data do I have access to?
 NCP eHealth(CY) Portal - Pharmacists Country of Travel
Page 16
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
The data you can access related to the ePrescriptionare administrative data
concerning the patient and the prescribing health professional, the authentication of
the prescription, the identification of the prescribed medicine and information related
to prescription, for instance patient characteristics which are necessary to be known.
Can I contact the patient's doctor if I have questions?
The contact details of the prescribing doctor in the patient's country of residence are
available in the ePrescription, so you can contact them in case of need.
In which language do I have access to patient's data?
When you request the patient’s ePrescription via your computer, you will receive it in
the patient's language and in your language. The 
is indeed
automatically translated in your own language, by the underlying digital
infrastructure. There might be information missing in case it could not be translated.
ePrescription 
You will access the patient's ePrescription in your own language, together with an
original copy of the ePrescription which is in the patient's language. You could check
this copy as well, as it might contain useful information to help you in the
dispensation process. However, you will have to explain the patient how to take their
medicine in your language, or any another language you may know, in the best
possible way. The terms of use of your medicine (package leaflet) are also
sometimes available in many languages.
In which language do I have to help the patient / give the information about
the use of the medicine? 
