NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - General Information Page 4 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus When European citizens are travelling from their country of residence to another European country (country of travel), for any purpose, they can retrieve their medication in a pharmacy without any printed prescription, merely relying on the cross-border exchange of ePrescription data between the two countries. The pharmacist in the country of travel will be able to view on their computer the ePrescription prepared by the patient's doctor in their country of residence and provide the prescribed medicine. When citizens travel from their country of residence to another country in Europe and find themselves in the necessity of consulting a doctor in that country, doctors will be able to access the Patient Summary, which contains essential medical information related to the patient. This will help doctors to formulate an adequate treatment, avoid some possible risk (for instance in case of allergy) and overcome linguistic barriers. The Patient Summary will then be substituted at a later stage by the European Health Record which will contain more comprehensive health data. In order to enable the services to fully operate, citizens will be informed on whether their health data are available for cross-border services before travelling. In some countries citizens might be required to explicitly give their authorization in order to have their health data made available abroad. In any case,making health data available for cross-border exchange is needed in orderfor pharmacists and doctors to access it from the country where the patient travels. Adequate IT infrastructure has been put in place at European and national level to allow this smooth exchange of data. How does it Work? NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Information for the Patient Page 5 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus In electronic cross-border services your personal data will always be treated and protected in accordance with the existing EU legislation and with the current practices in your country of residence and the country of travel. In some ,the cross-border exchange of your health data might be allowed by law and doesn’trequire any action from your part. In other countries of residence, on the contrary, you need to actively give your consent, meaning that you will have to sign a document(similar to a Privacy statement). Depending on your country, you can do this by contacting your doctor or electronically, by connecting to a specific website/web portal setup by your national authority. Please note that in case your consent is required and you don't give it in your country of residence before your departure or through mobile portal while travelling, it will not be possible for the pharmacist or the doctor in the country of destination to access your health data. In your you may also be asked to sign another document(similarto aPrivacy statement) which allows the pharmacist or the doctor in that country to access your healthdata. It is important to know that your health data are being exchanged through a secured communication channel and can only be accessed by health professionals (doctors or pharmacists) who are clearly and securely identified and authorized to access your health data. High security measures are in place in order to make sure that your health data cannot be accessed by unauthorized persons. How are my personal data protected? countries of residence country of travel What do I have to do, to have my health data available for cross- border exchange? NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Information for the Patient Page 6 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus Depending on the member state, you may be required, before your departure,to check via your doctor or your national patients’ portal if your health data are automatically available for electronic cross-border services or if you need to give your consent for that. If you have online access to your health data, please pay attention to the instructions you receive on how to give your consent electronically. Make sure you have a document to clearly identify yourself (see question below) If needed, give consent to allow the pharmacist/doctor to access your health data. . Do I have access to the same health services in my country of travel as the citizens living there? As an EU citizen, if you unexpectedly fall ill during atemporary stay abroad, you are entitled to any treatment that can't wait until you get home. You have the same rights to healthcare as people insured in the country you are in. It is advisable to take your European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) with you on all trips abroad This card is the physical proof that you are insured in an EU country and will simplify payment and reimbursement procedures.However,if you don't have your card or if it is not possible to use it, you may not be refused treatment. You may, however, have to pay for it upfront and claim reimbursement once backhome. NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Information for the Patient Page 7 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus I don't speak the pharmacist's language. How will the pharmacist get the right information from my doctor? The pharmacists in your country of travel will get your ePrescription in their own language,together with an original copyof your ePrescriptionwhich is in yourlanguage.So,theprescription originally done by your doctor will be available in the pharmacist's system in both languages. How will I know how to take the medication? The terms of use of your medicine (package leaflet) will be available in the language(s) of the country of travel and might be also available in other languages. Concerning the patient-specific guidance, it will be available in your own language and the pharmacist will explain to you in the best possible way how to take your medicine. What document do I need to take with me when going to a Pharmacy or consulting a doctor abroad? When requesting your medicine in a pharmacy in the country of travel or if you consult a doctor there, you will need to clearly identify yourself. Each country has defined the type of identification document that the patient has to show to identify themselves when using the ePrescription. You need to check with your own national contact point for eHealth what identification document you need. NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Information for the Patient Page 8 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus Unfortunately, there is no absolute certainty that a specific prescription can be dispensed. The supply of medicines at a pharmacy in your country of travel may be more limited than in your country of residence, the pharmacy may not stock the medicine, and there is no available substitution. Furthermore, the medicine in question may not have a marketing authorisation in the country of travel. The pharmacist may also refuse to dispense a medication due to the substitution rules for medicinal products in the country of travel. A pharmacy dispenses the medication according to the legislation in its country. My prescription is quite ordinary. Why can't the pharmacy in my country of travel dispense the medicine? Y Will I be reimbursed for my medication as I am at home, and how should I apply for that? ou will need to pay the full cost in the country of travel.You can request reimbursement from your insurer when you return to your country of residence(the country of prescription). Reimbursement will then be granted or not, depending on your national health insurance system.