 NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - Information for the Patient  
Page 9
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
                                                      
                                                  
Please request a prescription from a doctor in the country of travel.                             
       
                                                                         
                                            
No, such a prescription cannot be dispensed in your country of residence using the
cross border electronic services. In case you received a paper copy of your
prescription and provided the prescription includes the required information, the
pharmacy from your country of residence should dispense your prescription.               
                                       
                                                                                                          
For acting on behalf of someone else, you must follow the applicable provisions of
each country. This first depends on the national provisions implementing data
protection legislation in each country, but also, depending on the country and your
needs, you might be asked to provide additional documents as proof of authority to
act on behalf of another person (e.g. proof of your identity, birth certificate if you
are acting on behalf of a minor, power of attorney). Please consider there might be
countries which do not allow acting on behalf of someone else in such situations.
I was unable to obtain medicine from a pharmacy in my country of travel,
but I need it urgently. What shall I do?           
I am a European citizen who travelled to another European country and had an
electronic prescription issued in the country of travel. Can I retrieve the prescribed
medicine from my country of residence?
Can I purchase medicines on behalf of someone else, for instance my child
or my wife? 
 NCP eHealth(CY) Portal - Doctors in the Country of Residence 
Page 10
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
 
Does every doctor in the country of travel automatically have
access to the patient's health data? Do I need to indicate or inform
that my patient is travelling?                                                                       
                                
Authorized doctors and pharmacists, according to the
legislation in the countries of travel, can have access
to the patient's health data only if the patient's health
data is available for electronic cross border services. In
some countries of residence, citizens are required to
explicitly give their consent, whereas in other
countries of residence, the electronic cross-border exchange of patient's health data
might be allowed by law and does not require any action from the patient's part. In
any case, pharmacists and doctors in the country of treatment can only access
health data if it has been made available for electronic cross-border exchange by the
country of residence. In addition, in some countries of travel, doctors and
pharmacists may have to ask the foreign patient to sign an additional Privacy
statement, to enable them to comply with the law in their country and to be able to
process patient's data. Doctors in the country of residence.  Depending on the
MemberState, you should inform your patients about the possibility of making their
health data available for electronic cross-border services when travelling, either
through your own support or by accessing a national portal. It is not necessary to
indicate if thepatient will travel. National portals are different for each Member
State; please check this accordingly,by referring to the information provided by your
national contact point for eHealth on how to communicate about the availability of
the electronic cross-border services. If you have not received any training, please
contact your national contact point for eHealth.
 NCP eHealth(CY) Portal - Doctors in the Country of Residence
Page 11
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
In what language do I have to write my ePrescription? You will write your
ePrescription in your own language.                                                       
When the patient will ask for medicines in the country of travel,the pharmacist will
receive the ePrescription both in the original language and in their own language.
Translation is done automatically by the underlying digital infrastructure    
The Patient Summary can contain the following patient clinical data: 
- Alerts and allergies; 
- Medical history (vaccination, past problems, surgical procedures before the last six
months); 
- Current medical state (current problems, medical devices and implants, intake of
medicines, treatment recommendations, surgical procedures within the last six
months); 
- Social history; 
- Pregnancy history (ifrelevant); 
- Physical findings; - Diagnostic tests. 
It is not mandatory that all this information exists. This means that there might be
situations when only part of the information is available. Forinstance when the
informationwas not available in the systems; the information could not be translated
into other languages; there is no known information for that patient; etc. 
Refer to the training provided by your national contact point for eHealth on how to
read the information in the Patient Summary. If you have not received any training,
please contact your National eHealth Authority.
What is the information available in the Patient Summary? 
