 NCP eHealth(CY) Portal - Doctors in the Country of Residence
Page 12
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
You will write your ePrescription in your own language. When the patient will ask for
medicines in the country of travel, the pharmacist will receive thee Prescription both
in theoriginal languageand in their own language. Translation is done automatically
by the underlying digital infrastructure.
What is the information available in the Patient Summary? 
The Patient Summary can contain the following patient clinical data: 
- Alerts and allergies; 
- Medical history (vaccination, past problems, surgical procedures before the last six
months); 
- Current medical state (current problems, medical devices and implants, intake of
medicines, treatment recommendations, surgical procedures within the last six
months); 
- Social history; 
- Pregnancy history (ifrelevant); 
- Physical findings; 
- Diagnostic tests.
It is not mandatory that all this information exists. This means that there might be
situations when only part of the information is available. For instance when the
information was not available in the systems; the information could not be translated
into other languages; there is no known information for that patient; etc.
Refer to the training provided by your national contact point for eHealth on how to
read the information in the Patient Summary. If you have not received any training,
please contact your national contact point for eHealth.
In what language do I have to write my ePrescription? 
 NCP eHealth(CY) Portal - Doctors in the Country of Travel
Page 13
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
How do I verify the patient's identity before accessing their Patient
Summary?
Once you have identified yourself in thehospital information system and you checked
the patient's identity, you will request to access the patient's data provided by the
underlying digital infrastructure. If the data are not available for crossborder
services, the system will inform you. Before accessing the Patient summary for  the
consultation,you must inform the patient on their healthdata will be processed in the
country of travel. Depending on your national privacy laws, you may have to ask the
patient to sign a new Privacy statement. If you are not able to access the Patient
Summary, the system will give you an error message and inform you about the
cause. One of the causes might be that the patient did not make their health data
available before leaving their country of residence. You should advise the patient to
contact their doctor when back in their country of residence and perform the
consultation as usual.
How do I access the Patient Summary of a foreign citizen? 
Each country has defined the type of identification
documents that the patient can show when asking for
an electronic cross border service (Patient Summary or
ePrescription). You need to check with your own
national contact point for eHealth what identification
document you have to ask to the patient.
