 Electronic Cross-Border Services in the EU
Page 2
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
Every European citizen, regardless of his/her
European country of residence or the duration of
his/her temporary stay in an EU country, can now
feel even safer in case of illness or urgent Health
Care need.
Through the Electronic Cross Border Healthcare
Services, European citizens can now reach Healthcare professionals in the area where
they temporarily reside, knowing that they will be able to have access to their
Electronic Prescriptions (ePrescriptions) and Patient Summary Reports.
These services are available under the brand “MyHealth@EU” and facilitate optimum
response to EU Cross-Border Health Emergencies.
(and eDispensation) allows citizens in Europe to retrieve
their medication in a pharmacy located in another European country,
thanks to the online transfer of their electronic prescription from their
country of affiliation (hereafter referred to as the country of residence) to their
country of travel. Your country of residence is informed about the medicine you
retrieve in the country of travel (eDispensation).
Currently the following 2 Electronic Cross-Border Health services are progressively
introduced in all EU countries: 
ePrescription 
  
Patient Summaries  provide information on important health related
aspects such as allergies, current medication,previous illness, surgeries,
etc. It is part of a larger collection of health data called an European
Health Record whose implementation across Europe is planned at a
later stage. The digital Patient Summary is meant to provide doctors with essential
information in their own language concerning the patient, when the patient comes from
another EU country and there may be a linguistic barrier. In the long term, medical
images, lab results and hospital discharge reports will also be available across the EU,
with the full health record to follow later on.
 NCP eHealth(Cyprus) Portal - General Information 
Page 3
 National eHealth Authority - Cyprus
Why do we need the Electronic Cross-Border Services in Europe? 
What are the benefits for the European Citizens ? 
Thanks to these services, any citizen in Europe
will continue to benefit from healthcare under
similar conditions as if they were in their own
country, while travelling abroad in other
countries of theEU. It will be possible for
instance to obtain their medication in a
pharmacy without having to bring the printed
prescription and without being concerned about the language barrier. At the same
time, this allows doctors in the country of travel to access your basic and essential
medical data through the Patient Summary, which may save lives in some critical
cases. It will ease the quality of the consultation, by enabling doctors to know for
instance if you are allergic to some medicines or what your recent medical history is.
